---
templateKey: blog-post
title: 'Vagabond Ventures Part I: Pitbulls and Cocaine Addicted Hippies '
date: 2019-02-16T00:46:22.774Z
description: 'And How We Escaped '
tags:
  - life
---
Gather round boys and girls, it's story time. The misguided adventures of your favorite starving writer continue. The other experiences that I have been writing about on here are all from the past, but today I'm writing this from a Barnes and Nobles about 2,000 miles away from the place I called home.. until three weeks ago. Following the typical pattern that my life takes, I ended up in a situation that I just feel obligated to share with someone just so I can confirm that all of this is real and I am not dreaming it all up. I embarked on this journey with my girlfriend totally unprepared because the honest truth of the matter is, I feel that you can never truly be prepared for anything and I was not going to let the time go by talking about something that "I could have done". Sometimes you just have to grab the bull by the horns and just fucking follow your heart. You are only young one time so you might as well take risks while you still can and take a little something away from all of these experiences. 

We both put a pause on all unnecessary spending, worked miserable dead end jobs, and smiled back at all the negative or condescending comments from friends and family. We had booked the flight a little prematurely out of excitement. The girl who we were originally going to live with had ended up trying to scam us and threatened us not to come to Oregon because "she knew people". After laughing and hanging up the phone, we were back in the grind of the craigslist shuffle. (She actually reached out about two days later, asking if we were still interested in the room...I never replied.) This is where Ryan aka "Rye Bread" comes into the picture and tries to take a big steaming shit on our dreams and aspirations.

While searching for apartments on Craigslist, we ended up exchanging a few messages with this guy and ended up making a phone call that would change my life (at least for right now). My girlfriend and I had really dedicated a lot of time to spirituality and self-exploration. We really wanted to tread further down this path and that is part of the reason we ended up heading to Oregon as well as education and diving into adulthood. We finally got on the phone with Rye and he had talked a big talk about supporting what we were doing, wanting to help, and spreading love and kindness. I had gotten on the phone with him and we started to discuss pricing because he had wanted first and last month's rent as a deposit. He said that out of the kindness of his heart he would make an exception for us and that he would pick us up from the airport. He had also expressed to my girlfriend Blake that he would like to only go through her because I was a little too "New York" for him (whatever that means). 

So as time went on and we were getting ready to tackle this new adventure head on, he would text us things about spirituality and getting the most out of life. At first glance they appeared nice, but they started being a little incoherent and we just wrote it off as maybe he was just a little weird but he means well. My car is eventually picked up for transport and me and my girlfriend are dropped off at the airport...also for transport. After taking a million pictures at every stage of the air travel excursion, we finally landed at the Eugene airport and were waiting on our new hippie friend to come pick us up and take us to our new home for our new life.

Fresh off the plane and filled with eagerness, we rush over to the baggage claim area to meet Rye. Our psychedelic knight in shining armor was there waiting for us....barefoot and in a stained tie dye shirt. After smelling him from the back of the cab for the entirety of the ride, we both definitely had a strange gut feeling about the experience we just got ourselves into. We finally arrive at the trailer and honestly it's not that bad at all. There's art and cool retro decor laid out through out the entire thing. This is where our roommate Jordan (yes we share the same name) comes into the picture. Let me back track a little bit here and make it clear that we were never told there was going to be somebody else there living with us. We all really clicked at first so i figured it wasn't that big of a deal and that we were all going to be one big happy family of misunderstood misfits. 

In order to not have this be an entire novel, I am going to fast-forward a few days. Some time goes by and things are starting to get a little bit weird and uncomfortable. Jordan meets a girl off tinder and she moves in within a week. Now the one bathroom in the trailer is being shared between 5 people. Blake and I have the only real bedroom, since we paid rent in cash when we landed. Unfortunateyl this bedroom is infested with aunts and on more than one occasion we flick ants off our bodies and belongings. Jordan and his "girlfriend" sleep in the laundry room which was converted into a bedroom by putting a mattress on the floor. Rye sleeps with his dogs on the couch in the living room. (Note how I mentioned that we paid FULL rent in cash upon landing) 

We start noticing Rye's mental health seems no where to be found. The man is 36 years old and does not shower and can go days without leaving the couch. We point the ants out to him and he acts as if it's not a big deal. They even get in the pantry and get in all the groceries we purchased. Some true signs of his instability start to show when we see him start doing this thing where he is frustrated and speaks to the dogs as if they are the people he is upset with. It is super creepy and he starts to resemble some sort of sick antagonist in the story of our lives. Of course my suburban parents from New Jersey don't understand any of this and believe I am here living my party life with these fucking weirdos based off some sarcastic jokes I made to my brother. So with that support system totally collapsing on itself, It once again falls on me to get out of another crazy situation I had no intention of putting myself in. 

One day, Rye tells us that he needs 106 dollars when we get a chance. This is essentially the beginning of the end. Totally taken back by what this lunatic just told me, I ask him what he is talking about. He says that since we came on the 26th of January and paid for the month of February, that those days in January total up to 106. I remind him that he specifically told us not to worry about those days and that it was no big deal over the phone and again when we landed. Oh, I forgot to mention that he has not stopped drinking literally since we first got there, so he is literally all over the place. Days go by and he keeps pressing us for the 106 every time the opportunity presents itself. 

So sometime about a week and a half ago, we come back home and he wakes up in the most unstable mood I have ever seen him in. He yells at us and says that hes tired of "paying for us to wipe our ass" (even though he is the only one in the house unemployed) and that he needs the 106 and he is tired of helping us. I remind him that we grocery shop for the house, help decorate, and have done small favors for him. He just twitches and stutters and we walk away back to our room. Later that night, we hear him screaming about how much he hates his roommates, carrying on conversation with himself, and abusing his dogs until they literally cry and try to hide from him. The next day he tells me that if I give him some rides to his physical therapy and walk the dogs every week then the debt is paid off, I don't even know how to reason with this man so I just nod my head. 

At this point, Blake and I are just trying to stay out of the trailer at all times. Rye is selling just about anything from clothes to Viagra pills to random people who keep coming in and out of the trailer. We come home one night and he is in the living room listening to classic rock by himself in the dark looking like he had not slept in weeks. Blake had told me that she suspected he was doing cocaine but I was a little skeptical at first, because this was a man of serious spiritual practice..right?? Anyways, he calls me over to his couch engulfed by darkness and drowned in the noise of what sounds like the Forest Gump soundtrack. "Wanna party a little bit with me man?" I'm not sure if I was more uncomfortable by the fact that he was sitting alone in the dark with a small mountain of cocaine or the fact that his choice of wording sounded like something a DARE officer would say when teaching about peer pressure. I awkwardly deny his offer and start going back to my room. He starts mumbling on about his brother who died in war and I'm not sure exactly who he is talking to this time, so I don't even break my stride to look back. 

The next day we find the Native American lady who owns the trailer park is standing in our kitchen with her fierce beady eyes and her arms crossed. 36 year old Rye Bread has told us in the past that they are very close and she even gives him money when he is short. Rye is sitting down behind her with his gaze locked onto the floor like a little boy hiding behind his mother. "Enough is enough, you guys gotta get out of here." the nameless landlord tells us. I stay calm and politely ask her to explain what she means, "You guys have been here two weeks already and it's just not working, you gotta go." I panic and call my mother..she tells me to sleep in my car and hangs up on me, so it's back to the drawing board. "May I ask what we are in violation of exactly?" I bullshit you not, taken back by my simple question she turns to rye looking for an answer (doesn't get one) and then turns back and says "Uhh, that is actually between the lease holder and I so I cannot discuss it with you but regardless you guys have to leave." 

Fast forward to today (February 26th) we have had a massive snow storm that prevented us from going to work for two days. I actually just turned my head right now and noticed that it is snowing again but why wouldn't it be snowing again, ya know? Desperate to make us leave before the time we paid to stay, Rye has turned off the wifi on us, unplugged the washer, but has managed to upgrade from the couch and get a big bunk bed for the living room. (probably funded by easily manipulated 20 year old burn out Jordan)  Jordan turned on us because we called him out for playing both sides and being fake. After saying how fucked up the Rye situation is and even offering to be a witness in court if needed, I come to find out from his girlfriend that they are actually about to move into our room when we leave. The show must go on though ladies and gentleman. I refuse to allow this to be the end of my experience. After networking and meeting people, we are lucky to be moving into a much better situation in March (or at least now it seems better) Money is going to be very tight due to this snow storm but like I said the show must go on, failure is not an option. Stay tuned for Vagabond Ventures II. Will it be written from a cozy warm apartment, or will it be written in the back of Barnes and Nobles over the tune of a hungry stomach and nearly crushed spirit? Who the fuck knows at this point? However, failure is not an option and a year from now I will be laughing at this situation. My hypothesis is that as long as you exercise integrity and kindness.. everything will fall into place the way it should and I'm willing to put it to the test.
